XRDDEV-1311 (#37)
nordic-institute/X-Road-Security-Server-sidecar: doc/security_server_sidecar_user_guide.md

   * [4.3 Configuration](#43-configuration)
   * [4.4 Central Server configuration](#44-central-server-configuration)
* [5 Back up and Restore](#5-back-up-and-restore)
   * [5.1 Automatic Backups](#51-automatic-backups)
* [6 Version update](#6-version-update)
* [7 Monitoring](#7-monitoring)
   * [7.1 Environmental monitoring](#71-environmental-monitoring)
   * [7.2 Operational Monitoring](#72-operational-monitoring)
* [8 Message log](#8-message-log)
   * [8.1 Local storage of message log](#81-local-storage-of-message-log)
* [9 Deployment options](#9-deployment-options)
   * [9.1 General](#91-general)
   * [9.2 Local database](#92-local-database)
   * [9.3 Remote database](#93-remote-database)
   * [9.4 High Availability Setup](#94-high-availability-setup)

# 1 Introduction
## 1.1 Target Audience
The intended audience of this Installation Guide are X-Road Security server system administrators responsible for installing and using X-Road Security Server Sidecar software.

The document is intended for readers with a moderate knowledge of Linux server management, computer networks, docker and X-Road.

# 2 Installation
## 2.1 Prerequisites to Installation

> The Security Server sidecar installation requires an existing X-Road Central server installed and configured and a installation of Docker.

Reviewer: Duplicated in `README.md`

&nbsp; | TCP 5577                                  | Ports for outbound connections (from the security server to the external network)<br> Querying of OCSP responses between security servers
&nbsp; | TCP 80 (1)                                | Ports for outbound connections (from the security server to the external network)<br> Downloading global configuration
&nbsp; | TCP 80 (1),443                            | Ports for outbound connections (from the security server to the external network)<br> Most common OCSP service
1.13   | TCP 80 (1)                                | Ports for information system access points (in the local network)<br> Connections from information systems
&nbsp; | TCP 443                                   | Ports for information system access points (in the local network)<br> Connections from information systems
1.14    | TCP 5588                                  | Port for health check (local network)
1.15    | TCP 4000 (2)                              | Port for admin user interface (local network)
1.16   |                                           | Internal IP address and hostname(s) for security server sidecar

> 1.17   |                                           | Public IP address, NAT address for security server sidecar

Reviewer: Duplicated in `README.md`

Author: The reference data is not exactly the same since i've added some new references

Reviewer: So we have two sets of data, isn't that even worse?

It is strongly recommended to protect the security server from unwanted access using a firewall (hardware or software based). The firewall can be applied to both incoming and outgoing connections depending on the security requirements of the environment where the security server is deployed. It is recommended to allow incoming traffic to specific ports only from explicitly defined sources using IP filtering. **Special attention should be paid with the firewall configuration since incorrect configuration may leave the security server vulnerable to exploits and attacks**.

## 2.4 Requirements for the X-Road Security Server sidecar
Minimum recommended docker engine configuration to run the security server sidecar container:
- CPUs: 2
- Memory: 2 GiB
- Swap: 1 GiB
- Disk space: 2 GiB
- If the security server is separated from other networks by a firewall and/or NAT, the necessary connections to and from the security server need to be allowed (**reference data: 1.12; 1.13; 1.14; 1.15;**). The enabling of auxiliary services which are necessary for the functioning and management of the operating system (such as DNS, NTP, and SSH) are outside the scope of this guide.

> - if the security server has a private IP address, a corresponding NAT record must be created in the firewall (**reference data: 1.18**).

Reviewer: Duplicated in `README.md`

- Create a docker bridge-type network called xroad-network to provide container-to-container communication..
- Run a new security server sidecar container from the xroad-sidecar-security-server-image and execute the initial configuration script, which will perform the following configuration steps:
  - Maps ports 4000 (admin UI) and 80 (HTTP) to user-defined ones (reference data 1.2).
  - Maps port 5588 (proxy health check) to the same host port.
  - Updates security server sidecar configuration on startup if the installed version of the image has been updated.
  - Configures xroad-autologin custom software token PIN code with user-supplied PIN (reference data 1.3).
  - Configures admin credentials with user-supplied username and password (reference data 1.4).
  - Generates new internal and admin UI TLS keys and self-signed certificates to establish a secure connection with the client information system.
  - (In version 6.23.0 or lower). Recreates serverconf database and properties file with serverconf username and random password.
  - Optionally configures the security server sidecar to use a remote database server.
  - Starts security server sidecar services.

>   - Replace 'initctl' for 'supervisorctl' in 'xroad_restore.sh' for start and stop the services.

Reviewer: Duplicated in `README.md`

Author: the installation is not exactly the same, because here is described using the setup script and in the user manual is described using directly the docker run command

Reviewer: Does the end user need them both?

Author: i put both in the user guide because i guess using the setup script is more simple but probably in some scenarios you don't wanto to download the project and build the image on your local

The user for the connection will be the default database user "postgres". The following configuration is needed on the remote database server to allow external access to the remote PostgreSQL database from the security server sidecar:
```bash
[...]
  # - Connection Settings -

  listen_addresses = '*'  # what IP address(es) to listen on;
                          # comma-separated list of addresses;
                          # defaults to 'localhost'; use '*' for all
                          # (change requires restart)
  port = 5432             # (change requires restart)
[...]
```

- Edit the PostgreSQL client authentication configuration file in `pg_hba.conf` to enable connections from outside localhost. Replace the IP `127.0.0.1/32` with `0.0.0.0/0`.

```bash
[...]
# IPv4 local connections:
host    all             all             0.0.0.0/0            md5
[...]
```

- If the database is in your local machine you have to use the interface ip that uses the host to connect to the docker containers. You can check this ip by running "docker inspect container_name" and checking the gateway property.

> - The external database has been tested both for external PostgreSQL database running i1n our local machine, in a remote server or inside another docker container. It also could be integrated with AWS RDS, it has been tested for PostgreSQL engine and Aurora PostegreSQL engine, both with version 10 of the PostgreSQL database.

Reviewer: Duplicated in `README.md`

```bash
  [...]
    # -db.properties -
serverconf.hibernate.connection.url = jdbc:postgresql://<new_host_ip>:5432/serverconf
serverconf.hibernate.connection.username = <new_user>
serverconf.hibernate.connection.password = <new_password>
  [...]
  ```
  If other components like 'message_log' or 'op_monitor' are also configured in the `etc/xroad/db.properties` file to use an external database, we must change their properties in the same way as in the example above.
- In case we are using a version up to 6.24.0 we must update the admin users by editing `etc/xroad.properties` file and replace the admin users and passwords with the new ones.
```bash
[...]
  # -xroad.properties -
  serverconf.database.admin_user = <new_serverconf_admin>
  serverconf.database.admin_password = -<new_serverconf_password>
[...]
```
 If we are using the regular version of the Security Server sidecar with the admin users for the 'messagelog' and 'op-monitor' databases we must the the same for this admin users.
- After the properties are changed, save and close the files  and restart the services by running:
```bash
 supervisorctl restart all

>   ```

Reviewer: Duplicated in `README.md`

Security Server sidecar server has different configurations combined with the versions (current supported versions are "6.23.0" and "6.24.0") of the X-Road Security Server to create different types of images.
All of the images can act as a provider or consumer Security Servers.

### 2.2.1 niis/xroad-security-server-sidecar:&lt;version&gt;-slim
Base image of the Security Server sidecar with the minimum necessary packages.

### 2.2.2 niis/xroad-security-server-sidecar:&lt;version&gt;
This image uses the slim as base image and includes the packages for support [environmental](https://github.com/nordic-institute/X-Road/blob/develop/doc/EnvironmentalMonitoring/Monitoring-architecture.md) and [operational monitoring](https://github.com/nordic-institute/X-Road/tree/develop/doc/OperationalMonitoring) along with support for [message logging](https://github.com/nordic-institute/X-Road/blob/develop/doc/DataModels/dm-ml_x-road_message_log_data_model.md).

### 2.2.3 niis/xroad-security-server-sidecar:&lt;version&gt;-slim-fi
This image is the same as the niis/xroad-security-server-sidecar:&lt;version&gt;-slim but with the Finnish settings configuration included.

> ### 2.2.4

Reviewer: title missing

> # Security Server Sidecar Installation User Guide <!-- omit in toc -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Security Server Sidecar User Guide <!-- omit in toc -->
```

## Version history <!-- omit in toc -->

 Date       | Version | Description                                                     | Author
 ---------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------

>  13.11.2020 | 1.0     | Initial version                                                 |

Reviewer: Author missing

      * [5.1 Automatic Backups](#51-automatic-backups)
   * [6 Version update](#6-version-update)
   * [7 Monitoring](#7-monitoring)
      * [7.1 Environmental monitoring](#71-environmental-monitoring)
      * [7.2 Operational Monitoring](#72-operational-monitoring)
   * [8 Message log](#8-message-log)
      * [8.1 Local storage of message log](#81-local-storage-of-message-log)
   * [9 Deployment options](#9-deployment-options)
      * [9.1 General](#91-general)
      * [9.2 Local database](#92-local-database)
      * [9.3 Remote database](#93-remote-database)
      * [9.4 High Availability Setup](#94-high-availability-setup)
   * [10 Kubernetes](#10-kubernetes)
      * [10.1 Kubernetes jobs readiness, liveness and startup probes](#101-kubernetes-jobs-readiness-liveness-and-startup-probes)
         * [10.1.1 Readiness probes](#1011-readiness-probes)
         * [10.1.2 Liveness probes](#1012-liveness-probes)
         * [10.1.3 Startup probes](#1013-startup-probes)
      * [10.2 Kubernetes secrets](#102-kubernetes-secrets)
         * [10.2.1 Create secret](#1021-create-secret)
         * [10.2.2 Consume secret](#1022-consume-secret)

# 1 Introduction
## 1.1 Target Audience

> The intended audience of this Installation Guide are X-Road Security server system administrators responsible for installing and using X-Road Security Server Sidecar software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The intended audience of this User Guide are X-Road Security server system administrators responsible for installing and using X-Road Security Server Sidecar software.
```

> The document is intended for readers with a moderate knowledge of Linux server management, computer networks, docker and X-Road.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The document is intended for readers with a moderate knowledge of Linux server management, computer networks, Docker and X-Road.
```

# 2 Installation
## 2.1 Prerequisites to Installation

> The Security Server sidecar installation requires an existing X-Road Central server installed and configured and a installation of Docker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Security Server sidecar installation requires an existing X-Road Central server installed and configured and an installation of Docker.
```

## 2.5 Network

The table below lists the required connections between different components.

**Connection Type** | **Source** | **Target** | **Target Ports** | **Protocol** | **Note** |
-----------|------------|-----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|
Out | Security Server | Central Server | 80, 4001 | tcp | |
Out | Security Server | Management Security Server | 5500, 5577 | tcp | |
Out | Security Server | OCSP Service | 80 / 443 | tcp | |
Out | Security Server | Timestamping Service | 80 / 443 | tcp | |
Out | Security Server | Data Exchange Partner Security Server (Service Producer) | 5500, 5577 | tcp | |
Out | Security Server | Producer Information System | 80, 443, other | tcp | Target in the internal network |
In  | Monitoring Security Server | Security Server | 5500, 5577 | tcp | |
In  | Data Exchange Partner Security Server (Service Consumer) | Security Server | 5500, 5577 | tcp | |
In | Consumer Information System | Security Server | 80, 443 | tcp | Source in the internal network |
In | Admin | Security Server | <ui port> (**reference data 1.2**) | tcp | Source in the internal network |

## 2.6 Installation

> To install X-Road Security Server sidecar we can run the script setup_security_server_sidecar.sh wich will build and run the image or we can run directly one of the public images published on Dockerhub. Both installations will have the same resulting running container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install X-Road Security Server sidecar we can run the script `setup_security_server_sidecar.sh` which will build and run the image. Alternatively one of the images published on Dockerhub can be used. Both methods result in the same running container.
```

### 2.6.2 Installation using setup script

> To install the Security Server sidecar in a local development environment, run the script setup_security_server_sidecar.sh providing the parameters in the order shown (reference data in user guide 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install the Security Server sidecar in a local development environment, run the script `setup_security_server_sidecar.sh` providing the parameters in the order shown (reference data in user guide 1.1, 1.2, 1.3, 1.4):
```

  ```bash
  ./setup_security_server_sidecar.sh <name of the sidecar container> <admin UI port> <software token PIN code> <admin username> <admin password> (<remote database server hostname> <remote database server port> <remote_database_name>)
  ```

The script setup_security_server_sidecar.sh will:

> - Create a docker bridge-type network called xroad-network to provide container-to-container communication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Create a Docker bridge-type network called xroad-network to provide container-to-container communication.
```

- Build xroad-sidecar-security-server-image performing the following configuration steps:

>   - Downloads and installs the packages xroad-proxy, xroad-addon-metaservices, xroad-addon-wsdlvalidator and xroad-autologin from the public NIIS artifactory repository (version bionic-6.22.0 or later).

Reviewer: Earlier we said that 6.23 and 6.24 are supported

  - Exposes the container ports 80 (HTTP), 443 (HTTPS), 4000 (admin UI), 5500 (proxy), 5577 (proxy OCSP) and 5588 (proxy health check).
- Start a new security server sidecar container from the xroad-sidecar-security-server-image and execute the initial configuration script, which will perform the following configuration steps:
  - Maps ports 4000 (admin UI) and 80 (HTTP) to user-defined ones (reference data 1.2).
  - Maps port 5588 (proxy health check) to the same host port.
  - Updates security server sidecar configuration on startup if the installed version of the image has been updated.
  - Configures xroad-autologin custom software token PIN code with user-supplied PIN (reference data 1.3).
  - Configures admin credentials with user-supplied username and password (reference data 1.4).
  - Generates new internal and admin UI TLS keys and self-signed certificates to establish a secure connection with the client information system.
  - Recreates serverconf database and properties file with serverconf username and random password.
  - Optionally configures the security server sidecar to use a remote database server.
  - Starts security server sidecar services.

>   - Replace 'initctl' for 'supervisorctl' in 'xroad_restore.sh' for start and stop the services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Replace `initctl` for `supervisorctl` in `xroad_restore.sh` for start and stop the services.
```

  - Create sidecar-config directory on the host and mount it into the /etc/xroad config directory on the container.

#### 2.6.2.1 Security Server Sidecar Slim

> To install the Security Server Sidecar slim, modify the docker image build path in the setup_security_server_sidecar.sh script by changing the path "sidecar/Dockerfile" to "sidecar/slim/Dockerfile". The Sidecar is a slim version of the sidecar who does not include support for message logging and monitoring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install the Security Server Sidecar slim, modify the Docker image build path in the setup_security_server_sidecar.sh script by changing the path `sidecar/Dockerfile` to `sidecar/slim/Dockerfile`. The Sidecar is a slim version of the sidecar who does not include support for message logging and monitoring.
```

> To install the Security Server Sidecar slim with Finnish settings, modify the docker image build path in the setup_security_server_sidecar.sh script by changing the path "sidecar/Dockerfile" to "sidecar/slim/fi/Dockerfile"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install the Security Server Sidecar slim with Finnish settings, modify the Docker image build path in the `setup_security_server_sidecar.sh` script by changing the path `sidecar/Dockerfile` to `sidecar/slim/fi/Dockerfile`
```

#### 2.6.2.2 Finnish settings
  To install the Security Server Sidecar in a local development environment with Finnish settings, modify the image build in the setup_security_server_sidecar.sh changing the path "sidecar/Dockerfile" to "sidecar/fi/Dockerfile"

### 2.6.2 Installation using Dockerhub image

> First, create a docker network to allow communication between containers, we can run the docker command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, create a Docker network to allow communication between containers, we can run the Docker command:
```

```
docker network inspect xroad-network >/dev/null 2>&1 || docker network create -d bridge xroad-network
```

> To install the Security Server sidecar in a local development environment, we can run the docker command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install the Security Server sidecar in a local development environment, we can run the Docker command:
```

```
docker run --detach -p <ui port>:4000 -p <http port>:80 -p 5588:5588 --network xroad-network -e XROAD_TOKEN_PIN=<token pin> -e XROAD_ADMIN_USER=<admin user> -e XROAD_ADMIN_PASSWORD=<admin password> -e XROAD_DB_HOST=<database host> -e XROAD_DB_PORT=<database port> -e XROAD_DB_PWD=<xroad db password> -e XROAD_LOG_LEVEL=<xroad log level> -e XROAD_CONF_DATABASE_NAME=<database name> --name <container name> niis/xroad-security-server-sidecar:<image tag>
```

## 2.7 External database

> It is possible to configure the security server sidecar to use a remote database, instead of the default locally installed one. To do that, you need to provide the remote database server hostname (&lt;database-host&gt;) and port number (&lt;database-port&gt; ) as parameters when running 'docker build' command. Before running the script, you must also set the environment variable XROAD_DB_PASSWORD with the remote database administrator master password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to configure the security server sidecar to use a remote database, instead of the default locally installed one. To do that, you need to provide the remote database server hostname (&lt;database-host&gt;) and port number (&lt;database-port&gt; ) as parameters when running `docker build` command. Before running the script, you must also set the environment variable `XROAD_DB_PASSWORD` with the remote database administrator master password.
```

> The user for the connection will be the default database user "postgres". The following configuration is needed on the remote database server to allow external access to the remote PostgreSQL database from the security server sidecar:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The user for the connection will be the default database user `postgres`. The following configuration is needed on the remote database server to allow external access to the remote PostgreSQL database from the security server sidecar:
```

```bash
[...]
  # - Connection Settings -

  listen_addresses = '*'  # what IP address(es) to listen on;
                          # comma-separated list of addresses;
                          # defaults to 'localhost'; use '*' for all
                          # (change requires restart)
  port = 5432             # (change requires restart)
[...]
```

- Edit the PostgreSQL client authentication configuration file in `pg_hba.conf` to enable connections from outside localhost. Replace the IP `127.0.0.1/32` with `0.0.0.0/0`.

```bash
[...]
# IPv4 local connections:
host    all             all             0.0.0.0/0            md5
[...]
```

> - If the database is in your local machine you have to use the interface ip that uses the host to connect to the docker containers. You can check this ip by running "docker inspect container_name" and checking the gateway property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the database is in your local machine you have to use the interface ip that uses the host to connect to the docker containers. You can check this ip by running `docker inspect <container_name>` and checking the gateway property.
```

> - The external database has been tested both for external PostgreSQL database running i1n our local machine, in a remote server or inside another docker container. It also could be integrated with AWS RDS, it has been tested for PostgreSQL engine and Aurora PostegreSQL engine, both with version 10 of the PostgreSQL database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The external database has been tested both for external PostgreSQL database running in our local machine, in a remote server or inside another Docker container. It also could be integrated with AWS RDS, it has been tested for PostgreSQL engine and Aurora PostgreSQL engine, both with version 10 of the PostgreSQL database.
```

### 2.7.1 Reconfigure external database address after initialization

> It is possible to change the external database after the initialization while the Sidecar container is running. This will not recreate the database, so we need to make sure that the 'serverconf' database and a user with granted permissions to access it are already created. To change the database host we need to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to change the external database after the initialization while the Sidecar container is running. This will not recreate the database, so we need to make sure that the `serverconf` database and a user with granted permissions to access it are already created. To change the database host we need to:
```

- Run a new command on the sidecar container:
```bash
docker exec -it <sidecar_container_name> bash
  ```
- Inside the container open in a text editor (we can install any of the command line text editors like nano, vi ...) the `etc/xroad/db.properties` file:
 ```bash
nano etc/xroad/db.properties
  ```
- Replace the connection host, the username and password with the properties of the new database:
```bash
  [...]
    # -db.properties -
serverconf.hibernate.connection.url = jdbc:postgresql://<new_host_ip>:5432/serverconf
serverconf.hibernate.connection.username = <new_user>
serverconf.hibernate.connection.password = <new_password>
  [...]
  ```

>   If other components like 'message_log' or 'op_monitor' are also configured in the `etc/xroad/db.properties` file to use an external database, we must change their properties in the same way as in the example above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  If other components like 'message_log' or 'op_monitor' are also configured in the `etc/xroad/db.properties` file to use an external database, we must change their properties in the same way as in the example above.
```
```suggestion
  If other components like `message_log` or `op_monitor` are also configured in the `etc/xroad/db.properties` file to use an external database, we must change their properties in the same way as in the example above.
```

- In case we are using a version up to 6.24.0 we must update the admin users by editing `etc/xroad.properties` file and replace the admin users and passwords with the new ones.
```bash
[...]
  # -xroad.properties -
  serverconf.database.admin_user = <new_serverconf_admin>
  serverconf.database.admin_password = -<new_serverconf_password>
[...]
```

>  If we are using the regular version of the Security Server sidecar with the admin users for the 'messagelog' and 'op-monitor' databases we must the the same for this admin users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 If we are using the regular version of the Security Server sidecar with the admin users for the `messagelog` and `op-monitor` databases we must the the same for this admin users.
```

- After the properties are changed, save and close the files  and restart the services by running:
```bash
 supervisorctl restart all
  ```

## 2.8 Logging Level

>   It is possible to configure the Security Server Sidecar to adjust the logging level so that it is less verbose. To do this, we must set the environment variable XROAD_LOG_LEVEL, the value of this variable could be one of the case-sensitive string values: TRACE, DEBUG, INFO, WARN, ERROR, ALL or OFF. By default, if the environment variable is not set, the logging level will be INFO.

Reviewer: Which one is it, Security Server Sidecar or security server sidecar? Use the same format everywhere.

Author: i've replace all using uppercase

  For setting the environment variable we can either edit the /etc/environment file or run:

   ```bash
    export XROAD_LOG_LEVEL=<logging level value>
    ./setup_security_server_sidecar.sh <name of the sidecar container> <admin UI port> <software token PIN code> <admin username> <admin password>
    ```

## 2.9 Volume support

    It is possible to configure security server sidecar to use volume support. This will allow us to  create sidecar-config and sidecar-config-db directory on the host and mount it into the /etc/xroad and /var/lib/postgresql/10/main  config directories on the container.

>     For adding volume support we have to modify the docker run sentence inside the setup_security_server_sidecar.sh script and add the volume support:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    To add volume support we have to modify the docker run command inside the setup_security_server_sidecar.sh script by adding the following parameters:
```

    For example:
      ```bash
      [...]
        docker run -v sidecar-config:/etc/xroad -v sidecar-config-db:/var/lib/postgresql/10/main -detach -p $2:4000 -p $httpport:80 -p 5588:5588 --network xroad-network -e XROAD_TOKEN_PIN=$3 -e XROAD_ADMIN_USER=$4 -e XROAD_ADMIN_PASSWORD=$5 -e XROAD_DB_HOST=$postgresqlhost -e XROAD_DB_PORT=$postgresqlport -e XROAD_DB_PWD=$XROAD_DB_PASSWORD --name $1 xroad-sidecar-security-server-image
      [...]
      ```

#### 2.9.1 Store sensitive information in volumes
The file `/etc/xroad.properties` contains sensitive information to access the external database. For security reasons, it is strongly recommended to store this file outside the Security Server sidecar container by configuring a volume:
```bash
[...]
   -v sidecar-properties:/etc/xroad.properties -detach -p $2:4000 -p $httpport:80 -p 5588:5588 --network xroad-network -e XROAD_TOKEN_PIN=$3 -e XROAD_ADMIN_USER=$4 -e XROAD_ADMIN_PASSWORD=$5 -e XROAD_DB_HOST=$postgresqlhost -e XROAD_DB_PORT=$postgresqlport -e XROAD_DB_PWD=$XROAD_DB_PASSWORD --name $1 xroad-sidecar-security-server-image
[...]
```

# 3 Verify installation

> The installation is successful if docker image is running, the system services are started inside the container and the user interface is responding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The installation is successful if Docker image is running, the system services are started inside the container and the user interface is responding.
```

b3031affa4b7        niis/xroad-security-server-sidecar:<image tag>   "/root/entrypoint.sh"   10 minutes ago      Up 10 minutes       443/tcp, 5500/tcp, 5577/tcp, 0.0.0.0:5588->5588/tcp, 0.0.0.0:<http port>->80/tcp, 0.0.0.0:4600->4000/tcp   <container name>
```
- Ensure from running a command  in the running container that the services are running(**reference data: 1.1**):
```
docker exec -it <container name> supervisorctl
postgres                         RUNNING   pid 469, uptime 0:15:55
xroad-autologin                  RUNNING    Nov 04 12:23 PM
xroad-confclient                 RUNNING   pid 468, uptime 0:15:55
xroad-monitor                    RUNNING   pid 471, uptime 0:15:55
xroad-opmonitor                  RUNNING   pid 470, uptime 0:15:55
xroad-proxy                      RUNNING   pid 473, uptime 0:15:55
xroad-proxy-ui-api               RUNNING   pid 476, uptime 0:15:55
xroad-signer                     RUNNING   pid 472, uptime 0:15:55
```

> - Ensure that the security server user interface at https://SECURITYSERVER:&lt;ui port&gt;/ (**reference data: 1.3**) can be opened in a Web browser. To log in, use the account name and password chosen during the installation (**reference data: 1.5; 1.6**). While the user interface is still starting up, the Web browser may display a connection refused -error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensure that the security server user interface at https://SECURITYSERVER:&lt;ui port&gt;/ (**reference data: 1.3**) can be opened in a web browser. To log in, use the account name and password chosen during the installation (**reference data: 1.5; 1.6**). While the user interface is still starting up, the web browser may display a connection refused -error.
```

> - Ensure that the security server user interface at https://SECURITYSERVER:&lt;ui port&gt;/ (**reference data: 1.3**) can be opened in a Web browser. To log in, use the account name and password chosen during the installation (**reference data: 1.5; 1.6**). While the user interface is still starting up, the Web browser may display a connection refused -error.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Ensure that the Security Server user interface at https://SECURITYSERVER:&lt;ui port&gt;/ (**reference data: 1.3**) can be opened in a Web browser. To log in, use the account name and password chosen during the installation (**reference data: 1.5; 1.6**). While the user interface is still starting up, the Web browser may display a connection refused -error.
```

# 4 X-Road Security Server sidecar initial configuration

> During the security server initial configuration, the server’s X-Road membership information and the software token’s PIN are set

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During the Security Server initial configuration, the server’s X-Road membership information and the software token’s PIN are set
```

## 4.1 Prerequisites

> Configuring the security server assumes that the security server owner is a member of the X-Road.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configuring the Security Server assumes that the Security Server owner is a member of the X-Road.
```

## 4.2 Reference data

> ATTENTION: Reference items 2.1 - 2.3 in the reference data are provided to the security server owner by the X-Road central’s administrator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ATTENTION: Reference items 2.1 - 2.3 in the reference data are provided to the security server owner by the X-Road central server's administrator.
```

**Ref** | **Value**                                               | **Explanation**
------ | -----------------------------------------                | --------------------------------------------
2.1    | &lt;global configuration anchor file&gt; or &lt;URL&gt;  | Global configuration anchor file container

> 2.2    | 	<security server owner's member class> *E.g.*  *GOV-government*; *COM - commercial*             | Member class of the security server's owner

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2.2    | 	<Security Server owner's member class> *E.g.*  *GOV-government*; *COM - commercial*             | Member class of the Security Server's owner
```

> 2.3    | &lt;security server owner register code&gt;              | Member code of the security server's owner

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2.3    | &lt;Security Server owner register code&gt;              | Member code of the Security Server's owner
```

> 2.4    | &lt;choose security server identificator name&gt;        | Security server's code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2.4    | &lt;choose Security Server identificator name&gt;        | Security Server's code
```

> Note (1): The global configuration provider's download URL and TCP port 80 must be reachable from the security server sidecar network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note (1): The global configuration provider's download URL and TCP port 80 must be reachable from the Security Server sidecar network.
```

> Note (2): Reference items 2.1 - 2.3 are provided to the security server owner by the X-Road central server's administrator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note (2): Reference items 2.1 - 2.3 are provided to the Security Server owner by the X-Road Central Server's administrator.
```

> Note (3): The security server member code usually refers to the organization's business code, although there can be other conventions depending on the X-Road governing authority's rules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note (3): The Security Server member code usually refers to the organization's business code, although there can be other conventions depending on the X-Road governing authority's rules.
```

> Note (4): The security server code uniquely identifies the security server in an X-Road instance. X-Road instance's governing authority may dictate rules how the code should be chosen.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note (4): The Security Server code uniquely identifies the security server in an X-Road instance. X-Road instance's governing authority may dictate rules on how the code should be chosen.
```

## 4.3 Configuration
To perform the initial configuration, open the address
```
https://SECURITYSERVER:<ui-port>/
```

> in a Web browser (**reference data: 1.2**). To log in, use the account name and password chosen during the installation (**reference data: 1.5; 1.6 **).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in a web browser (**reference data: 1.2**). To log in, use the account name and password chosen during the installation (**reference data: 1.5; 1.6 **).
```

Upon first log-in, the system asks for the following information.
- The global configuration anchor file (**reference data: 2.1**).

 **Please verify anchor hash value with the published value.**

 If the configuration is successfully downloaded, the system asks for the following information.

>  - The security server owner’s member class (**reference data: 2.2**).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - The Security Server owner’s member class (**reference data: 2.2**).
```

>  - The security server owner’s member code (**reference data: 2.3**).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - The Security Server owner’s member code (**reference data: 2.3**).
```

>  If the member class and member code are correctly entered, the system displays the security server owner’s name as registered in the X-Road center.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 If the member class and member code are correctly entered, the system displays the Security Server owner’s name as registered in the X-Road Central Server.
```

>  - Security server code (**reference data: 2.4**), which is chosen by the security server administrator and which has to be unique across all the security servers belonging to the same X-Road member.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 - Security Server code (**reference data: 2.4**), which is chosen by the Security Server administrator and which has to be unique across all the Security Servers belonging to the same X-Road member.
```

 - Software token’s PIN (**reference data: 1.4**). The PIN will be used to protect the keys stored in the software token. The PIN must be stored in a secure place, because it will be no longer possible to use or recover the private keys in the token once the PIN has been lost.

## 4.4 Central Server configuration

> After the Security Server sidecar it's configured, we need to register it in the central server, information about how to configure the Security Server sidecar on the central server can be found on the  [Security Server user guide.](https://github.com/nordic-institute/X-Road/blob/develop/doc/Manuals/ug-ss_x-road_6_security_server_user_guide.md#31-configuring-the-signing-key-and-certificate-for-the-security-server-owner)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the Security Server sidecar is configured, we need to register it in the central server, information about how to configure the Security Server sidecar on the central server can be found on the  [Security Server user guide.](https://github.com/nordic-institute/X-Road/blob/develop/doc/Manuals/ug-ss_x-road_6_security_server_user_guide.md#31-configuring-the-signing-key-and-certificate-for-the-security-server-owner)
```

> After the Security Server sidecar it's configured, we need to register it in the central server, information about how to configure the Security Server sidecar on the central server can be found on the  [Security Server user guide.](https://github.com/nordic-institute/X-Road/blob/develop/doc/Manuals/ug-ss_x-road_6_security_server_user_guide.md#31-configuring-the-signing-key-and-certificate-for-the-security-server-owner)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the Security Server sidecar it's configured, we need to register it in the Central Server, information about how to configure the Security Server sidecar on the Central Server can be found on the  [Security Server user guide.](https://github.com/nordic-institute/X-Road/blob/develop/doc/Manuals/ug-ss_x-road_6_security_server_user_guide.md#31-configuring-the-signing-key-and-certificate-for-the-security-server-owner)
```

# 5 Back up and Restore
Information of how to backup and restore the Security Server sidecar can be found on the [Security Server User guide](https://github.com/nordic-institute/X-Road/blob/develop/doc/Manuals/ug-ss_x-road_6_security_server_user_guide.md#13-back-up-and-restore).

The Security Server sidecar stored its configuration on the local file system folder:
```
/etc/xroad/
```

> It is possible store this configuration outside the docker container using docker volumes. Adding a docker volume will allow to keep the configuration even if the container is removed and the possibility to use the same configuration in other docker containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible store this configuration outside the Docker container using Docker volumes. Adding a Docker volume will allow to keep the configuration even if the container is removed and the possibility to use the same configuration in other Docker containers.
```

> To add the docker volume, in the docker run command [docker run command](##2.6-Installation) add the docker volume parameter mapping to the config folder:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add the Docker volume, in the Docker run command [docker run command](##2.6-Installation) add the Docker volume parameter mapping to the config folder:
```

```
docker run -v (custom-volume-name):/etc/xroad
```

> Once the docker container is running we can see the volume information and where it is stored in our local machine by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the Docker container is running we can see the volume information and where it is stored in our local machine by running the following command:
```

```
docker volume inspect (custom-volume-name)
[
    {
        "CreatedAt": "2020-10-22T13:44:16+02:00",
        "Driver": "local",
        "Labels": null,
        "Mountpoint": "/var/lib/docker/volumes/sidecar-config/_data",
        "Name": "sidecar-config",
        "Options": null,
        "Scope": "local"
    }
]

```
We can manually backup the data stored in the "Mountpoint" every period of time.

## 5.1 Automatic Backups

> By default the Security Server backs up its configuration automatically once every day. Backups older than 30 days are automatically removed from the server. If needed, the automatic backup policies can be adjusted by editing the ''/etc/cron.d/xroad-proxy' file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default the Security Server backs up its configuration automatically once every day. Backups older than 30 days are automatically removed from the server. If needed, the automatic backup policies can be adjusted by editing the `/etc/cron.d/xroad-proxy` file.
```

> Automatic backups will be stored in the folder '/var/lib/xroad/backup/'. We can create a volume for store the automatic backups by adding in the run command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Automatic backups will be stored in the folder `/var/lib/xroad/backup/`. We can create a volume for store the automatic backups by adding in the run command:
```

		<xrd:protocolVersion>4.0</xrd:protocolVersion>
	</SOAP-ENV:Header>
	<SOAP-ENV:Body>
		<m:getSecurityServerMetricsResponse>
			<m:metricSet>
				<m:name>SERVER:DEV/COM/12345/ss3</m:name>
				<m:stringMetric>
					<m:name>proxyVersion</m:name>
					<m:value>6.23.0</m:value>
				</m:stringMetric>
				<m:metricSet>
					<m:name>systemMetrics</m:name>
					<m:stringMetric>
						<m:name>OperatingSystem</m:name>
						<m:value>Linux version 5.3.0-28-generic (buildd@lcy01-amd64-009) (gcc version 7.4.0 (Ubuntu 7.4.0-1ubuntu1~18.04.1)) #30~18.04.1-Ubuntu SMP Fri Jan 17 06:14:09 UTC 2020</m:value>
					</m:stringMetric>
					<m:numericMetric>
						<m:name>TotalPhysicalMemory</m:name>
						<m:value>16523407360</m:value>
					</m:numericMetric>
				</m:metricSet>
			</m:metricSet>
		</m:getSecurityServerMetricsResponse>
	</SOAP-ENV:Body>
</SOAP-ENV:Envelope>
```

More information can be found in https://github.com/nordic-institute/X-Road/blob/master/doc/EnvironmentalMonitoring/Monitoring-architecture.md/

Note (1): The Security Server sidecar must have available certificates and a subsystem registered on the central server.

## 7.2 Operational Monitoring

> Operational monitoring for the Security Server Sidecar provider can be used to obtain information about the services it is running. The operational monitoring processes operational statistics (such as which services have been called, how many times, what was the size of the response, etc.) of the security servers. The operational monitoring will create a database named "op-monitor" for store the data, this database can be configured internally in the container or externally (check 1.6). More information about how to test it can be found here https://github.com/nordic-institute/X-Road/tree/develop/doc/OperationalMonitoring/Protocols

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Operational monitoring for the Security Server Sidecar provider can be used to obtain information about the services it is running. The operational monitoring processes operational statistics (such as which services have been called, how many times, what was the size of the response, etc.) of the Security Servers. The operational monitoring will create a database named "op-monitor" for store the data, this database can be configured internally in the container or externally (check 1.6). More information about how to test it can be found here https://github.com/nordic-institute/X-Road/tree/develop/doc/OperationalMonitoring/Protocols
```

# 8 Message log
Message log will be available if we use the regular version of the X-Road Security Server sidecar instead of the 'slim' version.

> The purpose of the message log is to provide means to prove the reception of a regular request or response message to a third party. Messages exchanged between security servers are signed and encrypted. For every regular request and response, the security server produces a complete signed and timestamped document (Associated Signature Container).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The purpose of the message log is to provide means to prove the reception of a regular request or response message to a third party. Messages exchanged between Security Servers are signed and encrypted. For every regular request and response, the Security Server produces a complete signed and timestamped document (Associated Signature Container).
```

Message log data is stored to the [messagelog database](https://github.com/nordic-institute/X-Road/blob/develop/doc/DataModels/dm-ml_x-road_message_log_data_model.md) of the security server database host (**reference data: 1.7**) during message exchange. According to the configuration (see 8.1), the timestamping of the signatures of the exchanged messages is either synchronous to the message exchange process or is done asynchronously using the time period set by the X-Road governing agency.

> armin

Reviewer: remove

> In case of synchronous timestamping, the timestamping is an integral part of the message exchange process (one timestamp is taken for the request and another for the response). If the timestamping fails, the message exchange fails as well and the security server responds with an error message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the case of synchronous timestamping, the timestamping is an integral part of the message exchange process (one timestamp is taken for the request and another for the response). If the timestamping fails, the message exchange fails as well and the Security Server responds with an error message.
```

> In case of asynchronous timestamping, all the messages (maximum limit is determined in the configuration stored in the message log since the last periodical timestamping event are timestamped with a single (batch) timestamp. By default, the security server uses asynchronous timestamping for better performance and availability.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the case of asynchronous timestamping, all the messages (maximum limit is determined in the configuration stored in the message log) exchanged since the last periodical timestamping event are timestamped with a single (batch) timestamp. By default, the Security Server uses asynchronous timestamping for better performance and availability.
```

## 8.1 Local storage of message log
The Security Server sidecar periodically composes signed (and timestamped) documents from the message log data and archives them in the local file system folder:
```
/var/lib/xroad/
```
Archive files are ZIP containers containing one or more signed documents and a special linking information file for additional integrity verification purpose.

To make sure we are not running out of disk space, we can use a docker volume to store the log records outside the container in our host.

> From the docker run command [docker run command](##2.6-Installation) add the docker volume parameter mapping to the host local storage folder for the logs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the Docker run command [docker run command](##2.6-Installation) add the docker volume parameter mapping to the host local storage folder for the logs:
```

```
docker run -v (custom-volume-name):/var/lib/xroad/  
```

# 9 Deployment options
## 9.1 General

> X-Road Security Server Sidecar has multiple deployment options.  The simplest choice is to have a single security server with local database. This is usually fine for majority of the cases, but there are multiple reasons to tailor the deployment. The images different images could be combine and any can be used as a consumer or provider server.

Reviewer: database running inside the container or database running on the same host?

Author: inside the container, i will make it clear

> X-Road Security Server Sidecar has multiple deployment options.  The simplest choice is to have a single security server with local database. This is usually fine for majority of the cases, but there are multiple reasons to tailor the deployment. The images different images could be combine and any can be used as a consumer or provider server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
X-Road Security Server sidecar has multiple deployment options. The simplest choice is to have a single Security Server with a local database. This is usually fine for the majority of the cases. Nevertheless, there are other Security Server images available that can be used for tailoring the deployment to specific needs. These different images could be combined. Any of these Security Server sidecar images can be used either as a consumer or provider role.
```

## 9.2 Local database

> The simplest deployment option is to use a single security server sidecar with local database. For development and testing purposes there is rarely need for anything else, but for production the requirements may be stricter.

Reviewer: same comment as above

> The simplest deployment option is to use a single security server sidecar with local database inside the container. For development and testing purposes there is rarely need for anything else, but for production the requirements may be stricter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The simplest deployment option is to use a single Security Server sidecar container with the local database running inside the container. For development and testing purposes there is rarely the need for anything else. However, for running the Security Server sidecar on a production environment, the requirements may be stricter.
```

> ![Security server with local database](img/ig-ss_local_db.svg)

Reviewer: there is a typo in the picture

## 9.3 Remote database

> It is possible to use a remote database with X-Road Security Server Sidecar.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is possible to use a remote database with X-Road Security Server sidecar.
```

> It is possible to use a remote database with X-Road Security Server Sidecar. This option is sometimes used in development and testing when there's need to externalize the database state.

Reviewer: Isn't this the most common option?

> X-Road Security Server Sidecar supports a variety of cloud databases including AWS RDS and Azure Database for PostgreSQL. This deployment option is useful when doing development in cloud environment, where use of cloud native database is the first choice.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
X-Road Security Server sidecar supports a variety of cloud databases including AWS RDS and Azure Database for PostgreSQL. This deployment option is useful when doing development in a cloud environment, where the use of a cloud-native database is the first choice.
```

![Security server with remote database](img/ig-ss_external_db.svg)

## 9.4 High Availability Setup

> In production systems it's rarely acceptable to have a single point of failure. Security server supports provider side high availability setup via so called internal load balancing mechanism. The setup works so that the same member / member class / member code / subsystem / service code is configured on multiple security servers and X-Road will then route the request to the server that responds the fastest. Note that this deployment option does not provide performance benefits, just redundancy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In production systems, it's rarely acceptable to have a single point of failure. Security Server supports provider side high-availability setup via the so-called internal load balancing mechanism. The setup works so that the same combination of <member>/<member class>/<member code>/<subsystem>/<service code> is configured on multiple Security Servers and X-Road will then route the request to the server that responds the fastest. Note that this deployment option does not provide performance benefits, just redundancy.
```

![Security server high availability](img/ss_high_availability.svg)

> 

Reviewer: External load balancing scenario is missing

Reviewer: Did we mention somewhere that AWS EKS is supported?

The liveness probes are useful when the pod is not in a live state and can not be accessed through the UI, for example, due to the pod being caught in a deadlock or one of the services running in the container has stopped.

The parameters for the liveness probes are the same than for the readiness probes, but using the port 80 to check if nginx is running and serving the application instead of using port 5588 to check if the Sidecar pod is ready to serve traffic. It is recommended also to increase the failureThreshold value.

  ```bash
  [...]
containers:
livenessProbe:
  httpGet:
   path: /
   port: 80
  initialDelaySeconds: 100
  periodSeconds: 10
  successThreshold: 1
  failureThreshold: 5
  [...]
  ```

### 10.1.3 Startup probes
The startup probes indicate whether the application within the container is started. All other probes are disabled if a startup probe is provided until it succeeds.

Startup probes are useful for Pods that have containers that take a long time to come into service. This is not really useful in the Sidecar pod because it takes to short to start.

> In a different scenario where the Sidecar would take a long time to start, the startup probe can be used in combination with the liveness probe, so that it waits until the startup probe has succeeded before starting the liveness probe. The tricky part is to set up a startup probe with the same command, HTTP or TCP check, with a failureThreshold * periodSeconds long enough to cover the worse case startup time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In a different scenario where the sidecar container would take a long time to start, the startup probe can be used in combination with the liveness probe, so that it waits until the startup probe has succeeded before starting the liveness probe. The tricky part is to set up a startup probe with the same command, HTTP or TCP check, with a failureThreshold * periodSeconds long enough to cover the worse case startup time.
```

 ```bash
 [...]
containers:
livenessProbe:
 httpGet:
  path: /
  port: 80
 periodSeconds: 10
 successThreshold: 1
 failureThreshold: 50
 [...]
 ```

## 10.2 Kubernetes secrets
### 10.2.1 Create secret

> In this example we are going to create a secret for the X-Road Security Server Sidecar environment variables with sensitive data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, we are going to create a secret for the X-Road Security Server sidecar environment variables with sensitive data.
```

> Create a manifest file called for example "secret-env-variables.yaml" and fill it with the desired values of the environment variables.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Create a manifest file called for example 'secret-env-variables.yaml' and fill it with the desired values of the environment variables.
```

> - replace <namespace_name> with the name of the namespace if it's different from `default`. If we want to use `default` namespace, we can delete the line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Replace <namespace_name> with the name of the namespace if it's different from `default`. If we want to use `default` namespace, we can delete the line.
```

```bash
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: secret-sidecar-variables
  namespace: <namespace_name>
type: Opaque
stringData:
  XROAD_TOKEN_PIN: "1234"
  XROAD_ADMIN_USER: "xrd"
  XROAD_ADMIN_PASSWORD: "secret"
  XROAD_DB_HOST: "<db_host>"
  XROAD_DB_PWD: "<db_password>"
  XROAD_DB_PORT: "5432"
  XROAD_LOG_LEVEL: "INFO"
```

> Apply the manifest:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Apply the manifest:
```
